[WHOOSH SOUND]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> I'm Uri Geller,
and this is my Legacy.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
I would describe
myself, Uri Geller,
as a person that
actually shocked
the world with something
quite trivial and surprising.
You see, I always say
that the secret of success
is originality.
And I came up with something
original, something
that was never seen before.
So I really shocked the
world with that feat.
I look at myself as someone,
maybe a freak of nature,
maybe a little advanced,
ahead of my time,
maybe something that
triggered my mind power.
My mental abilities began
at a very early age.
First of all, very
few people know this,
but when I was about a year
old, my mother put me in a pram
under a window.
At that time in Israel,
it was Palestine,
and the British were the
rulers in Israel, in Palestine.
And a British soldier shot
two bullets into our window
from across the
railroad station.
And I remember that.
I remember the glass
shattering, falling slow motion
onto my face.
There was a little Teddy
bear that covered my face,
and nothing happened to me.
I wasn't even scratched.
So maybe that was a shock.
Maybe that was the
actual trigger.
The second experience
that happened to me
that definitely falls into
the category of a shock
is the following.
I'm about five years old.
I'm playing in an Arabic
garden, magical garden.
And I heard kittens cry.
And as a five-year-old,
I'm looking for them.
Suddenly, out of nowhere, I
see a huge sphere of light.
It's throbbing.
It's almost like
a living entity,
but it was just a
sphere, a ball of fire.
I look at this
phenomena, and then I
can see with my eyes
a beam, almost--
I describe it today
as a laser beam.
It hits my forehead,
and it was so tangible--
it's so powerful--
that it pushes me
into the grass.
Now, I don't know how
long I lay in the grass,
but I ran home to
tell my mother.
She didn't believe me.
She thought that I was either
dreaming, fantasizing, lying,
making it up, but, no,
I wasn't making it up.
It happened.
And this is why I adhered to
this story through all my life.
I didn't ebb away from it.
I wrote about it in my books.
I talked about it
on documentaries,
and really, people thought,
come on, this is so far out.
It can't be true.
And recently, an Israeli
Air Force officer
validated this entire scene.
I was talking about
this amazing encounter--
I'll call it encounter--
on a program on the BBC.
That documentary
was shown in Israel.
And I get an email from a
man called Jacobi, who says,
hey, Uri, I was there.
I saw that sphere.
I saw you.
I saw a little
boy running home--
because the apartment building
was very near the garden.
It was maybe 50 meters away.
And he actually
validated this story.
And I said, wow!
I grabbed the phone.
I called him.
I came to Israel.
I filmed him, and
he says that when
I ran away from the sphere of
light, the sphere followed me.
And when I got into our
entrance, into the doorway,
the sphere exploded on
the facade of our building
and kind of tarnished
it in a dark residue.
That was it.
So there I had a
validation that, no,
I wasn't making up a story.
I wasn't dreaming it.
When I am asked today
what I think that was,
I have a few theories.
Let's talk about the
most rational one,
that it was some kind of
a geophysical phenomena.
You know, sometimes the earth
releases different gases and--
who knows?
But they form bubbles and so--
maybe that was a very simple--
has a simple
scientific explanation.
Next theory, that it could have
been a spiritual encounter,
something to do
with religion maybe,
something to do with my
belief system, something
that I created with my
mind, but it was tangible.
It was there.
I could touch it.
The third theory is
the most far-out one--
that I really had
an alien encounter.
I did not see an alien being.
I didn't see the grays
with the big eyes.
I saw this sphere.
But after I told this
story over and over,
I get thousands of emails
from people telling me,
we had the same
encounter, and we
believe it was some kind
of a UFO visitation.
It was some kind of an
extraterrestrial being trying
to communicate with us.
That's a possibility.
I am a believer.
There is nothing I
do not believe in.
I believe in infinity, so
everything is possible.
Of course, there are UFOs.
Of course, there are aliens.
Very soon after this encounter
in this magical Arabic garden,
I'm eating soup.
I'm lifting a spoon
up towards my mouth.
Suddenly, the spoon
bends and breaks.
And I'm left holding the handle
of the spoon, which maybe I'll
demonstrate later.
So my mother looks at me,
and I look at the handle,
but what does a five and a
half, six-year-old kid know?
My mother, again,
wasn't surprised.
And she thought, oh, well, maybe
powers and the paranormal--
you know, we didn't know
the word paranormal then.
And then I thought
to myself, hang on--
spoon-- can I do it again?
And again?
So I tried it in
school, and I tried it,
and I showed it to
my mother's friends.
Everyone was shocked,
surprised, amazed, aghast,
to say, what is this?
That's when I realized that
I had something-- something
different, something unique.
My friends in school--
pupils-- they were
good in basketball.
They were good in soccer.
They were good in arithmetic.
I was very average, but
I was good at bending
spoons and reading minds.
And the way I discovered
that I could read minds was--
I was not good in
mathematics, in arithmetic--
so I could concentrate on
the back of a pupil's head,
and I would copy the answer.
The teacher didn't know
how I got the answer
right when the equation
was wrongly written.
Then I could look at the
clock on the wall, will it
to move an hour ahead.
So I started discovering
things that I
could do at a very early age.
Later on in life, I
had to label myself.
And, of course, I had to
always reinvent myself.
And today, I look at it as--
the phenomena, I see it as
the field of the paranormal.
There is a section of it
that is mind over matter
or psychokinesis,
telepathy, the ability
to do extrasensory perception.
But I was always controversial.
Even in school, even
when I was seven, eight,
nine-year-old,
children and teachers
didn't know how to gather--
how to digest this thing.
Some thought I was a magician.
Some thought it was just some
kind of a mind over matter
phenomenon.
Nobody really knew.
And I realized then
that this is what's
going to push me out of poverty,
because we were very poor.
My mother was a seamstress.
My father was a womanizer.
He was never at home.
I remember me and my mom
walking to the flea market.
She would buy old
American parachutes
from which she
would sew dresses.
We would collect
plastic Bakelite spoons
after people would
eat their ice creams,
and she would wash
them and resell them.
We were broke.
And as I was growing up, I used
my extrasensory perception,
for instance, to make my
mother win in card games.
She would take me to
a little card club.
She would play rummy, and
I would sit next to her.
And I could look at the
cards of the other players,
which, obviously, you can't see.
But I always knew--
I detected who had the
joker, or who had two jokers.
And I would kick my
mother's leg to tell her
which person had the joker.
In a way, it was
kind of cheating,
but I could do that
telepathically.
And my mother would
win quite a lot
of money, which would help our
existence because she had to--
she was the earner
in the family.
My father wasn't around.
Then my parents
divorced, and my mother
married a Hungarian Jew
who lived in Cyprus.
I was 11-- didn't know English.
So I left Israel, and
suddenly, a whole new culture
opens up-- different
religions, Turks and Greeks.
The British also occupied
Cyprus at that time.
We're talking about 1957.
And my school was called
Terra Santa College.
It was up on a hill,
and around the school,
there were hundreds of caves.
And we would go down into
the caves to explore.
And I remember, on a few
occasions, we got lost,
and I would use my mental
powers to lead the kids out
of the caves.
So I would use these
abilities in different areas.
I don't know what it was.
Maybe it was dowsing.
Maybe it was using my
extrasensory perception waves,
almost like a sonar.
But, yeah, I used to do these
different and unusual things.
And, again, everybody
was just, wow!
And I already then felt that I
was entertaining also people.
Now, my stepfather died a year
after my mother married him.
And we lived running this
little hotel which had 14 rooms.
The Mossad, the
Israeli secret service,
discovered that
we're from Israel,
and they turn this hotel
into a Mossad safe house.
And there would be
Mossad agents, spies.
They would check in,
and from there, they
would go to spy, you
know, in Syria, Egypt.
One day, I approach
one of these agents.
I must have been 12.
His name was Yoav Shacham, and
I told him, Yoav, you're a--
or you're a spy, aren't you?
He was, what?
What are you talking about?
How do you know?
Why you saying these things?
To make a long story short,
I became, at 12 years of age,
a spy for Israel.
You know what I did?
I bent a spoon for him, and
I did telepathy with him.
And he would tell me--
he would give me instructions--
OK, I'm leaving now
the hotel, but I'm
going to send you letters.
Don't open them.
You'll get on the
bicycle and give them--
hand them into the hand
of the Israeli consul--
in a consulate, which wasn't
far away from our little hotel
establishment.
And I realized
that he was spying,
say, in Egypt or in Syria.
He would send secret
information in letter forms
in the envelopes.
I jumped on the bike and drove
them down to the consulate.
So I knew that I was
acting for the Mossad.
And then Yoav says to me, Uri,
I can't understand your powers,
but you are helping us.
I want you to go back to
Israel when you're 18,
join the paratroopers,
go to officer's school,
and then find me.
And I told him, Yoav, how
am I going to find you?
You're going to find me because
we are going to use you.
You have amazing very special
abilities that we need.
I'm asked many times if
I'm unique in my family,
possessing these abilities,
these skill, these powers--
call it whatever.
I'm an only child.
But having said that, I'm going
to touch on something very
sensitive and very emotional.
You see, my father
didn't want children.
And he forced my mother to
go through eight abortions.
And my mother fought for me,
so maybe there is a connection
because I do feel
that, around me, I
must have my brothers
and sisters, maybe
an angelic form,
angels, spirits.
I know I'm not alone.
That was a shock to me when
my mother told me that.
So today, I'm-- no
brothers, no sisters.
In my family, my son
Daniel, when he was young,
he could maybe do
some telepathy,
but they tried bending spoons.
My daughter Natalie tried
many times, but no one could.
Remember I said before
that the secret of success
is originality.
And there's nobody who did
spoon bending before me.
And how did that come about?
Very interesting-- I was
on a major television
show on the BBC in 1972.
It was called the
"David Dimbleby Show."
And I'll tell you
how it came about.
I'm sitting-- around me,
skeptical scientists--
and David Dimbleby
hands me a spoon.
And he says, show
us your powers!
And I hold a spoon, and
suddenly, I do something
that I've never done before.
I look into the camera, like
this, and I hold up this spoon,
and I say, everybody at home!
Go and get your spoons!
I didn't realize that I sent 10
million people to the kitchen.
Everybody came back
to the TV screens
holding a spoon because
no one could fathom--
believe that spoons are going
to bend in their own homes,
in the living rooms in
Scotland, in Wales, in England--
I mean-- and this
is what happened.
I'm reminding you what
happened on that show.
I hold a spoon, and I
stroke it very gently.
And I look at it, and I
say bend, melt, bend, melt,
and look--
the metal is becoming
almost like plastic--
Plastic, see no
heat is produced.
I say bend, melt,
bend-- and look,
and then I went like
that, and the spoon broke.
[ECHOING] Bend, bend,
melt, melt, bend, bend,
melt, melt, melt.
Do you know what
happened the instant
the spoon broke on the BBC?
The BBC's telephone system
blows up, not because of me,
not because of my energies,
but because spoons
were bending in people's homes.
When the phone calls were
coming in, at that time,
the system couldn't take 100,000
calls at the same moment.
And the phenomena was
huge, not only spoons bend,
but watches stopped,
watches moved,
pictures tilted on the
walls, lights flickered.
This was a mass phenomenon
all over England.
The next day, the headlines
screamed, Uri Geller Puts
England in a Bend.
That's when I realized, wow, I
can entertain people and blow
their minds at the same
time with something, to me,
is very trivial.
When I'm asked, Uri
Geller, are you a magician,
or are you real?
And my answer is crystal clear.
What I do is real.
And when people ask me,
well, how do you do it?
I can only explain the process
that goes through my mind.
Today, I do it--
if I'm in the mood, I do it.
I just touch a spoon.
I think, bend.
I don't even think
bend any more.
I visualize it bent, broken,
whatever-- it happens.
I can talk to
people when I do it.
When I was young, I would
command the metal to bend.
I would say bend,
bend, melt, melt.
Or when I sprout a red radish
seed, I say sprout, sprout.
So I want to believe
that there is
a process of some energy
that leaves my mind.
It has nothing to
do with my finger.
do with distance.
I can do it from afar.
It takes me more time--
the thicker the metal,
the more time it takes me.
These spoons are from
across the coffee shop.
They are thin, so it's easy.
There is an energy.
And let me take
you back to 1924.
A very, very clever scientist
comes up with a super-amazing
equation--
e equals mc square.
Of course, you all know
that it was Albert Einstein.
What did it mean by
e equals mc square?
In very simple terms,
Albert Einstein
proved scientifically that
everything in the universe
is made from energy.
Your energy-- you, you at home,
you are watching the screen--
your body, your energy.
I am energy.
The chair--
[TAPPING SOUNDS]
--you hear it?
It's solid?
No, it's not solid.
It's energy.
The spoon is energy.
It's vibrating in
such a frequency
that, to us, it feels
solid, but it's not.
So when I manipulate a spoon,
when I stroke it gently,
and when I command it to bend,
or break, or melt, or grow,
or move, I produce
an energy wave.
I don't believe it comes
out from my finger.
I believe it comes
out from my mind,
and it penetrates the molecular
structure of the metal.
I've done secret
stuff, for instance,
at Lawrence Livermore
Radiation Labs, where
they build nuclear weapons.
I've done secret experiments
at the American Naval Surface
Weapons, where they
introduced Nitinol--
Nitinol-- a metal
that has memory.
When you bend it physically,
you immerse it in hot water,
boiling water, it'll spring
back to its original shape.
I screwed up the
memory of that metal.
It didn't go back to
its original shape.
So I must be violating some
kind of a law of physics
by changing a
molecular structure.
Now, having said all this,
maybe I'm totally wrong.
Maybe this is not it.
Maybe I'm deriving
or I'm extracting
some kind of a power, some
kind of a universal energy
from outside me.
Maybe it has nothing
to do with my mind.
Maybe there is some kind of
an intelligence above me,
a super force, a
thinking entity, that
does this thing through me.
This is so far out.
This is such a far-out
theory, but it all has to--
it all goes back to
the hypnotic sessions
I had with Dr. Andrija Puharich,
who was a medical doctor.
He was an inventor.
If I'm not mistaken, he
invented the oxygen mask
to fighter pilots, and
very credible scientist.
And we went through something
so bizarre, so freaky,
when he came to test
me in Israel that, when
he wrote about it, I had to--
I didn't debunk it
because, hey, it happened
in front of my very own eyes.
He would stick a Sony TC tape--
at those times,
there were tapes--
into a Sony tape recorder.
I, in front of my
very own eyes, I
would see disappear,
dematerialize.
I've seen dematerializations--
I mean, I had--
I, my body, went through
something so unbelievable
that maybe Arthur C.
Clarke would believe it,
or writers of science
fiction movies.
And when I tell these stories,
I diminish my credibility
because people today say,
OK, so he can bend a spoon.
What's a big deal?
A spoon-- you can bend
it physically like that,
or you can bend
it with your mind.
But when you talk
about dematerializing,
things vanishing,
you're taking it way--
a step way far out.
But do you know what?
Do you know how many millions
of people around the world
experience driving a car, and
suddenly, they're miles ahead?
Time disappears!
Do you realize that almost
70% of all Americans
believe in something
paranormal--
in UFOs, in alien beings,
in ESP, in angels?
I mean, the list goes on and on.
Almost 70%, so there must
be some truth to that bigger
picture out there.
You see, I'm a huge
believer in Carl Jung's word
that he coined
up, synchronicity.
Everything that happens in the
universe happens for a reason.
There's no coincidence.
Well, there might be, but
the overall bigger picture
in things that happen
to you in your life,
or to other people,
that bring you
together are synchronicities.
If I would have to sum up
this whole fantastical trip,
a journey of my life, is that,
no doubt, consciousness exists.
Super consciousness exists.
Mammoth consciousness exists.
And to our viewers right now,
everything is possible in life.
Remember that there is nothing
that you cannot be, do,
or have because your mind power
can materialize things for you.
Your mind ability, your
super consciousness,
can do things for you.
If you think positive, you're
sending that message out
to that universe, and it
brings it back to you.
So in a nutshell, my
advice is think positive,
believe in yourself, but
also, wake up in the morning
and put yourselves in an
attitude of gratitude.
[MUSIC PLAYING]